# Opus-A-Case-Study
# By Philip Bonner
## Opus is a first of its kind, decentralized, blockchain powered music streaming platform founded in 2016 by Bokang Jia, Chenchao Xu, Mateusz Mach. According to Mateusz Mach, members of their team had previous experience in the music industry, so they understood the existing struggles of up and coming artists who weren’t managing to make a living when they were first began their careers. As of now, most music streaming services take over 50% of the revenue an artist’s music generates which cripples the hopes of artists who are in the beginning stages of their career. Inspired by the dedication these young artists displayed, Bokang Jia, Chenchao Xu, Mateusz Mach utilized the power of blockchain technology to allow artists to monetize their work apporpriately and encourage aspiring artists to create. According to Opus Foundation’s blog, the mean revenue artist gets on the top streaming platforms such as Spotify, Apple Music, and Soundcoud is $0.00769 per track stream. This is about 12% of the total revenue. Using this revenue system an artist needs to get around 163,407 streams in one month to reach the minimum wage. In comparison, Opus’ revenue per stream manages to overtake that by 800% coming up to $0.062160 per stream, letting the creator reach the minimum wage threshold with 24,616 streams. Established artists can combat this discrepancy through tours, sponsorships, and merchandise sales, but small artists are heavily impacted by this monopolized distribution of music and cannot survive with that revenue system.  
Naturally, Opus intends to create the world’s most efficient streaming platform through strategic implementation of modern advances in financial technology. In order to foster a streaming service application with minimal latency, Opus will employ the use of novel distributed ledger systems such as IPFS and leverage the unchanging nature of smart contracts and Ethereum. According to the OPUS Foundation, they will design their platform with the following specifications:  
“...[a] 4-layer system that utilizes IPFS as a file storage layer, an off-chain database as a transactional and directory layer, Ethereum smart contracts as a finance logic layer, and an API and applications as the front-end application layer. Due to the emerging state of the blockchain technology, with high Ethereum fees for collecting real-time data from players and effectively responding to users’ requests, we designed our own system to currently use an established layer for transactional operations. All the data is collected there and the hash of song statistics is periodically sent to the blockchain; thus, we can deliver real-time user experience balanced with rational costs, and utilize the blockchain to the greatest possible extent, primarily for payments.”  
Additionally, Opus is innovating the way smaller artists can promote their music through fan engangement and Ethereum distribution/acquisition. On most platforms, fans, music specialists, and curators create customized charts and playlists for the subsrcibers enjoyment. Unlike most digital platforms Opus intends to reward these creators for their efforts by paying them when songs are played from their original playlists. Crowdfunding is also feasible on Opus with the use of smart contracts, blockchain, and ethereum exchange directly on the system. With efficient use of the described technological system, Opus intends to revolutionize the music industry in the sameway MP3 files, iPods,  and Soundcloud have in the past 20 years. 
A great example that highlights the incentives for artists to switch platforms from centralized systems such as Spotify and Apple Music is the release of Frank Ocean’s “Blonde,” in 2016. Frank Ocean released his album “Blonde,” exclusively to streaming platforms. When Lucian Grange, CEO of Universal Music, discovered this, he ordered Universal’s labels to cease exlusive distibution deals with streaming services. This resulted in the retraction of the album against Frank Oceans wishes by Universal Music Group. Because company’s like Apple Music and Spotify are centralized, they were forced to comply to Universal’s demands. Ocean may also face charges resulting in heavy fines from the scandal. It is problems like the Frank Ocean example that drive the market for decentralized music platforms such as Opus. Opus would relinquish the need for Apple Music and toxic contracts that threaten the creativity of artists. On a truly decentralized music platform such as Opus, Universal Music Group would not have been able to take down his album and he would have received 100% of the revenue it generated. 
In order to overcome the inevitable high barriers to entry every innovative technology platform faces, Opus intends on targeting specific market segments. First, this platform being decentralized by nature allows for immutable content to be available any where in the world at anytime. Given this information, Opus will immediately expand into the international space of music sharing. Opus will be the first service to aggregate music from all over the world in one platform. Additionally, Opus will aim its marketing primarily at consumers already familiar with its technology and benefits. This will allow Opus to form a core base of loyal consumers and establish Opus as the first global leader in blockchain technolgy in the music space. Further, Opus is currently recruiting independent artists seeking compensation for their work to onboard their fans onto the platform. When Opus has established this core of loyal consumers it will then aggresively extend to contend with larger audiences by recruiting world renowned artists to become brand embassadors of the platform. 
While Opus is not a fully functioning platform as of now, their ideas for breaking down the toxic centralized aspects of the music industry have the potential to revolutionize how we monetize music forever. While attracting both artists and listeners alike I could see this platform taking off as soon as it becomes fully functinonal – especially with the rise of blockchain and new tech being applied in dfferent ways across multiple industries. 
